0
the race between-
Apollo and dionysus
a design essay by David Tiemstra
drag the mouse to the left to go through the pages <-

1
originality is the greatest good
the uglier the better
as long as you stand out

2
Originality is irrelevant if something is Bad.
Learn the rules before you even think of breaking them.

3
rules only serve to limit creativity
your methods may help those cowardly sheep
but i carry unique taste and original thought

4
Easy to bash the methods when you are simply to lazy to go through them.
You cannot forever hide your lack of skill and effort behind a wall of strangeness.

5
you only call my work strange because you cannot comprehend it

6
There is nothing there to comprehend other than a sad attempt to confuse your audience into assuming you are smarter than them.

7
but i AM
how can you look at the chewed up cookie-cutter creativity you label "high-quality" and still have the nerve to place it in the same league as me

8
At least theirs is a genuine attempt to create something of value and a willingness to let oneself be judged.
Tell me, how can something be considered Good if it is, by definition, impossible to be considered Bad?

9
again you miss the point
i am beyond labels such as god and bad, an enlightened mind that has progressed beyond the need to shove everything in a neat little corner

10
You make no sense;
just now you were professing the greatness of your originality, now you deny greatness exists at all?

11
greatness exists, but only in the eye of the beholder
and that beholder is ME!
i am slave to the approval of no one else

12
And this eye is so unique and complex it does not let itself be defined by Rules?

13
That is what I'd like to believe

14
I see your point, but it appears you are being untruthful.
You are scared that if you were to judge yourself honestly, you would not like what you see.

15
that may be so, but what purpose would judging myself as such serve?
what if it is as you say, and i end up disappointed
should i restrict my freedom, my pure originality, to fit these self-imposed rules?

16
How will you ever improve if you do not?

17
hmmmm... intuition?
i am an artist
the genie in my bottle will learn from experience
i don't need you to tame it

18
Is what you call intuition not simply a set of rules you have internalized?

19
even if it is, i dont think one lifetime would be enough to write them all down
i would rather spend my time cultivating and growing it

20
Arrogant as ever, I see.
Let me propose a race, to see if I can formulate your rules faster than you can reinvent them.

21.
i accept!
may the winner forever be know as the superior artist